---
layout: post
title: Overview of Maverick
slug: overview
date: 2019-12-11 22:23
status: publish
author: AlanDecode
excerpt: Maverick is a static blog generator built with python.
categories: 
  - Maverick
tags: 
  - Coding
  - Development
---

## Overview

Maverick is a static blog generator built with python. Like Hexo and Jekyll, it takes Markdown(`.md`) files as input, and output beautifully formated and well structured website pages(`.html`). It has a lot built-in useful features(feed, search, sitemap, etc.), with extended Markdown syntax and enhanced image processing pipeline.

If you are tired of intricate plugins and complicated configurations, just give Maverick a try. You focus on writing, let Maverick take care of the rest.

Pull requests are surely welcome. If you have any questions or suggestions, please head to [issue area](https://github.com/AlanDecode/Maverick/issues) and leave us a message. Before that, let's finish this document.

## Usage

Maverick is build with modern Python, currently at least **Python 3.5** is required, make sure you have it installed on your machine.

### Install

Clone this repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/AlanDecode/Maverick.git ./Maveric && cd ./Maveric
```

Install all dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

If error occurs, please verify your Python and pip version. Then edit the default configuration file:

```bash
vi ./config.py
```

For now let's use the default settings. Type this command in your terminal:

```bash
python ./build.py
```

...and a sample static site is generated in `test_dist` folder! You can then upload them to GitHub Pages or any other server. 

### Generate your own site

By default, Maverick searches all `.md` files recursively under `test_src` folder, so put your Markdown files in it and run `python ./build.py` then everything you need will be in `test_dist` folder. Maverick uses so-called `YAML frontmatter` to get meta data of your articles, if you have tried Hexo or Jekyll, you should be familiar with it; if you don't, let's look into it now.

......

Read the full documentation [here](https://github.com/AlanDecode/Maverick).

## License

MIT © [AlanDecode](https://github.com/AlanDecode).
